# NVE

NVE is responsible for coordinating the work on preventive security and
emergency preparedness in the power supply. NVE administers and relies
on six laws associated with regulations in various areas for its work.

The Energy Act and the Power of Supply Preparedness Regulations are
particularly important in connection with cloud services. However, there
are no specific regulations or prohibitions on the use of cloud services
in power grid operations in neither the Energy Act nor the Power of
Supply Preparedness Regulations.

What is worth emphasizing is the use of cloud services in KBO-entities.
According to the Power of Supply Preparedness Regulations section 2-1
second paragraph, KBO-entities means:

- The business that owns or operate facilities, systems, or other

  > infrastructure, and which are classified according to this
  > regulation under section 5-2 or section 5-7, or

- Other businesses that the emergency preparedness authority has
  > determined to be KBO-entities pursuant to section 3-1 second
  > paragraph.

There are no specific regulations of cloud services in law or
regulation, either generally or for KBO-entities. However, the Power of
Supply Preparedness Regulations limit to some extent the use of cloud
services by KBO-entities:

- Geography
- Security
- Requirements for system documentation
- Control over system changes
- Access control
- Operation and maintenance
- Supervision

Further, it is relevant to emphasize what KBO-entities can use cloud
services for. This can be divided into two main areas:

- Information

Power-sensitive information. Power-sensitive information is defined in
section 6-2 and refers to specific and detailed information about the
power supply that could be used to damage facilities, systems, or other
infrastructure or affect functions that are significant for the power
supply, including the items in letter (a) to (j) which provide a
non-exhaustive list of what power sensitive information can be.

According to the Power of Supply Preparedness Regulations the
KBO-entities have the responsibility for identifying power-sensitive
information, as well as controlling the overview of location and access.
This means that the KBO-entities must have control over where
power-sensitive information is located, as well as control over cloud
provider and subcontractor's access.

Furthermore, the customer must ensure that they, when outsourcing
services, have measures, routines, and systems as described in section
6-3. If cloud services are to be used and they process sensitive
information, special considerations apply to ensure that confidentiality
is maintained. This can also be derived from section 9-3 second
paragraph of the Energy Act, which required the signing of a
confidentiality statement.

The service and all its components **should** be process, store and
transport within EFTA, EU or NATO. Often it is possible to demand and
obtain approval that all data centers involved should be located withing
EFTA, EU or NATO. However, if the data center is to be located outside
of EFTA, EU or NATO, a risk assessment should be conducted, including
country risk.

As a main rule KBO-entities can use cloud services for personal data,
however it is subject to certain conditions. However, the use of cloud
services for personal data may have challenges outside EEA. The exact
boundary for such data is unclear, and it must therefore be assessed
concretely in each individual case.

Other information. As a main rule, KBO-entities can use cloud services
for other information.

- Function

Operational control systems. As a main rule KBO-entities cannot use sky
services for Operational control systems, including SCADA. The clear
starting point is therefore that such use is prohibited. In extension of
this, adjacent or interacting systems can be problematic in relation to
the use of cloud services.

When it comes to other systems, such as DMS, ERP, 0365 etc., it is
generally allowed, unless there are specific restrictions or limitations
set by the owner of the system or the service provider.

Given the above, as well as the report "Regulering av IKT-sikkerhet\"
(Regulation of ICT-security) prepared by NVE and the Security Guidelines
for power-sensitive information in cloud services, several factors
should be taking into consideration when evaluating cloud services:

- Ownership of data through clear regulations. Note that the

  > customer's information should not be used by the provider for
  > their own purposes or shared with other parties without the
  > customer's consent. This also applies to metadata about the
  > customer's information.

- The customer shall have updated backups of necessary information,
  > software and configurations of the operating control system that
  > are essential for the operation, safety, and recovery of power
  > supply. The backups shall be stored remotely in a secure location
  > that is easily accessible for the company.

- Requirements for cloud providers to have certifications. Even though

  > cloud providers are often certified according to recognized
  > international standards for information security, the customer
  > should explicitly ask about this.

- The loss of encryption keys can have critical consequences, as it

  > will lead to the loss of encrypted information. Therefore, good
  > technical solutions are important.

- An exit strategy that outlines how data can be brought back to the

  > company\'s own or another data center if desired. This may be
  > necessary if the provider is acquired and the service offering
  > changes. Financial and practical issues must be clarified,
  > including transaction costs associated with changing suppliers
  > should be included in the calculations.

- The customer should have access to third-party audit reports for

  > oversight of the provider.

- Requirements for the customer to be notified if unwanted incidents
  > occur and the data is compromised.

_Nødvendig å skrive inn noen oppsummerende punkter som sammenfatter
informasjonen om NVE. _
