# On the Customer side

If you are a Customer; do you:

-   Understand which rights you get and obligations you undertake when
    going into the cloud?

-   How it may affect and what you can put there, or if you can use
    cloud at all?

-   Do you have control over regulatory requirements and whether you
    will be compliant when you contract, and or later on as the terms
    and conditions are updated?

-   Have you made the necessary risk assessments before you make your
    cloud strategy and later on when you execute?

-   Do you understand the benefits or pitfalls with various ways to buy
    cloud?

-   Are you looking for tools to help you make a more thought-through
    decision?

The CloudTermsGuide tell you all you need to know if you are a customer.

We focus on the terms and conditions for IaaS/PaaS cloud services from
Microsoft, Amazon and Google. We have chosen to focus on these three, as
they are market leaders, and all invest more than 2 B\$ per month in
their services.

The intention is to give customers:

- full understanding of its rights and obligations when accepting the
applicable terms and conditions for cloud services

- overview of which internal routines/policies one should establish in
order to ensure compliance with any obligations/avoid being in breach
and risk liability or suspension.

- guidance as to whether regulatory requirements may prevent or affect
use of cloud services

The guide also includes helpful tools you may use in procurement
processes, in contract drafts or in evaluation. As we do not review
cloud terms in detail for SaaS services (there are thousands of
suppliers) we have also included a SaaS T&C check list, that will help
you assessing the risk and responsibilities + possible areas which
perhaps should be tried to be negotiated.

The primary goal is to quickly enable potential customers to understand
its rights and obligations, and that use of such services are compliant
with regulatory requirements, in order to shorten down "time to market".

The service gives you:

- 1st level - a high level summary of your rights and obligations
according to the subscription terms from Google Microsoft og Amazon. For
many customers this may be a sufficient level.

- 2nd level is a detailed review of the subscription terms, so you as
a customer gets guidance to turn every rock and really understand the
details of your rights and obligations. The review also a risk
evaluation tool you can use to score the various risks and
responsibilities, and include possible mitigations. Where sensible, we
have included suggestions for mitigations from a legal or solution
architect perspective. This can be used to make a thorough decision
before contracting. For your country it also includes guide to local
legislations (applicable for any sector).

- 3rd level is a detailed review of the service terms, mapped with
any sector specific rules and legislation. If you for instance are a
financial institution and subject to European Banking Association
regulations, or an insurance company subject to EIPOAS regulations, we
give you a detailed overview of all applicable rules and regulations,
and point at how/where they are solved in the applicable T&C's, and also
a recommendation as to if you will be compliant or not. As for our 2^nd^
level offering, this includes our risk evaluation tool, and the risk
assessment can be stored either in our service or locally by you.

As there are many different ways to purchase cloud services (either
directly from the cloud supplier or via resellers or embedded as part of
other services offerings such as SaaS), we give for each of the three
cloud suppliers a detailed review of the various programs under which
may subscribe. Take Microsoft Azure as an example, if you contract
directly with Microsoft you may subscribe under the MOSA program if you
sign up online, under MCA (Microsoft Customer Agreement), if you sign an
agreement with Microsoft or a reseller (CSP), or under the Entreprise
Agreement if you have more than 500 subscription licenses (and are a
public entity). The terms and conditions differ somewhat from each
other, and also differ from Microsoft terms and conditions when
purchased through a reseller/integrator. We give you guidance
irrespective of the agreement model.

Why will this be helpful for you?

This guide is made by two experienced (20 years +) IT lawyers in Norway
+ an experienced (28 years + in Accenture) solution architect. They have
guided clients both on the customer side and the supplier side and have
worked on many of the largest IT and cloud deals in the Nordics in the
last decades. By signing up for the service you get access to advices
for a very low subscription fee, which you as an individual client would
have paid several millions for.

As you see, it's also possible to choose your country of business, so
**that local regulatory requirements** also are addressed in the guides
available to you + **local business practice**. For each country
available with country specific content, we have chosen a leading law
firm as our partner, ensuring quality. For every country with specific
content, we promise that the guidance is given according to local bar or
lawyer specific rules and quality requirements.

Note also that we will also publish **updates** when relevant. For most
of the three cloud suppliers, we see updates in the service terms each
month. We offer news alerts and monitoring, so you know when updates
have been made, and so that you may do an updated risk analysis. You
will by subscribing know if changes in T&Cs make you non-compliant etc.
We will also offer additional webinars from time to time.

Since cloud services from the big three can be bought under different
agreement models, we also give an introduction to the various ways to
buy cloud service (direct agreement vs through resellers etc), so you
understand the pro and cons with each model, and whether one model can
be better than the other for you as a customer (yes there are large
differences)..

Note that the intention of this guide is __not__ to identify terms
and conditions that you should try to negotiate with the applicable
cloud supplier. Most companies do not have the "negotiation power" to
require improvements, so it's normally a waste of time to try, unless
one can point to regulatory requirements applicable to all or segments
of customers. As mentioned before, our intention is to enlighten the
customers so you all know your rights and obligations, may make
enlightened decisions and save "time to market". Â 

Who are our users?

Our target group is anyone in an organization that assesses the risk and
responsibility in cloud terms, such as legal/compliance, risk
assessment, financials, solutioning etc.
