# On the Reseller side

If you are a reseller of cloud services; do you:

-   Really understand the rights and obligations you get when signing up
    to be a reseller?

-   Do you understand the various reseller models, how it may affect
    your risk, how it may affect the rights your customers get and how
    it may effect whether your customers will be compliant with
    regulatory requirements?

-   Desire to standardize you end-customer agreements?

-   Are you aware that you often are liable towards the cloud provider
    for any end-customer breach of the cloud providers subscription
    terms, that it often is uncapped, and that the obligation to pay
    damages applies irrespectively of you getting payment from the
    individual end-customer for the same?

-   Are you aware that you need to mirror more than just the cloud
    suppliers subscription terms towards the end-customers, are the
    reseller agreements contain additional obligations you need to
    mirror?

We tell you what you need to know, so you have control over that and
mush more.

When you are a reseller of cloud services from Microsoft, Amazon or
Google, you have either:

1) Entered into a reseller agreement with the cloud vendor, enabling
you to resell the cloud services according to a long list of "resale
conditions". We explain:

- Which risks and obligations this entails in general (for instance
that the trigger for termination is not always material breach with a
reasonable time limit to cure, and this combined with termination with
immediately effect, may cause risk of business continuity for you and
your end-customers).

- How this affects the way you resell and the end-customer agreement
terms. For instance Amazon End User Account model vs Solution Provider
Account model triggers very different ways of reselling + the end
customer agreement terms should be substantially different due to your
resale rights. And did you know that under some resale models, you as a
reseller will be held liable by the cloud supplier for end customer
breach?

- How the various resale models affect you and the end customers. For
instance under some resale models end customers will get protection from
the relevant cloud supplier (for instance against third party claims),
while in other it gets no protection beyond what you as a reseller may
offer. You will be given detailed information so you will be able to
guide your end customers is a professional manner.

2) You are a end-customer of a cloud supplier yourself, and utilize
possibilities in the service terms to utilize the platform to provide
value added services to end-customers. For instance, your are a software
supplier, offering the software as a service hosted via AWS or Google.
Depending on which cloud suppler you choose, and under which program you
subscribe under, there are many pitfalls you should be aware of, that
affects you and the end-customers risk, and how you should phrase you
own subscription terms towards the end-customers

For both 1 and 2 you also get access to the "Customer" side of this
guide, so you may easily provide your end customer information about
risk and obligations that the individual end customer must accept when
purchasing cloud services.

You will also get access to tools, such as agreement templates for
resale of cloud services with different version adapted to fit for the
different resale models

